Type One (authentication cookie):

    Protocol Version            number          2 bytes
    Session ID                  number          8 bytes
    Local/Remote Flag           boolean         1 byte
    Authentication Type         number          2 bytes
    Data Length                 number          2 bytes
    Data                        data            <specified above>

This allows variable-length authentication data depending on the chosen
authentication type.  The protocol version would be defined to be 3 to
start with, but we may increment it independently of the version number of
the webauth release itself if we need to rev the cookie format.  All
fields after the data field should be ignored, so we can tack new fields
onto the end with a higher protocol rev.

The session ID is provided by the webauth server (see the preauth protocol
below) and sent back as-is to the webauth server from the weblogin server.

The local/remote flag would just be 0 for local and 1 for remote (the
weblogin handoff).  This field is supposed to be unnecessary as the domain
of the cookie conveys the same information, but is just there as a safety
check and debugging aid.

The authentication type would be a number specifying the type of
authentication being used.  We can arbitrarily assign 1 to Kerberos v5
service tickets.

The data for our initial authentication protocol would be a service ticket
for the web server in question.

Do we want to leave the additional logging data for a future rev of the
cookie format?  With the above specification and a guarantee that the
initial fields will be constant for newer protocol revs, we could easily
add it later.  (On the other hand, that would require decoding additional
fields at variable offsets found by decoding the data length first, but
that doesn't seem like a huge problem to me.)

Do we need to store either the identity of the user or the identity of the
server to which they're authenticating outside of the service ticket or
outside of the data field in general?  I don't *think* we do, but does
anyone have any other opinions?

Any checksum or signature isn't useful unless it's encrypted somehow, so
this is left to the authentication data for those authentication protocols
that need something like this.

The only difference between the cookie set by weblogin to pass this
information and the cookie set by the webauth server (if it wishes to
continue to use webauth to establish user identity rather than setting its
own session cookie, which is always its option) is the local/remote flag
setting.

Type Three (preauthentication handoff to weblogin):

    Protocol Version            number          2 bytes
    Session ID                  number          8 bytes
    Authentication Type         number          2 bytes
    Identity Length             number          2 bytes
    Identity Data               data            <specified above>

The authentication type specifies the type of authentication that this
webauth server wishes to use, using the same numbers as the previous
cookie format.  The identity data is the identity of the server to obtain
authentication information for; for a Kerberos authentication type, this
will be a principal name.  Identity length may be zero if the specified
authentication type requires no server identity.

The session ID is any data that the webauth server wishes to use to track
the client, passed in this cookie so that a matching value can be included
in the authentication cookie.

Both cookies will be encoded in base64 before passing them to the client.
The key for the Type One ticket will be webauth-auth.  The key for the
Type Three ticket will be webauth-request.  The key for the Type Four
ticket handoff from weblogin to the webauth server will also be
webauth-auth.
