                     WebAuth Design: Password Change
                Written by Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

Introduction

  This document lays out the design for adding password change support to
  WebAuth via the WebLogin and the WebKDC.  It summarizes the additional
  components required and the modifications needed for existing
  components.

  The goal of this work is to provide user password change (when they know
  their existing password) alongside the WebLogin interface on the grounds
  that password change should be co-located with the point of
  authentication.  This password change service will then be used to
  support password expiration by prompting for password change when a user
  password is expired and then allowing them to continue through the
  WebLogin protocol interaction after completing that password change.
  Finally, a mechanism for checking the expiration of a password and
  providing the user with advance notification of expiring passwords will
  be described.

Password Change Interface

  The password change screen should be an additional page with a separate
  template for local UI customization, with the following elements:

  * Prompt for the user's username, suppressed if the user has already
    authenticated with an expired password (see below) or if they're
    referred to the password change page from the confirmation page with
    the username already set (see below).

  * Prompt for the user's current password, suppressed if the user has
    already authenticated with an expired password (see below).

  * Two prompts for the user's new password, repeated to ensure that the
    password is entered properly.

  If the user goes directly to this page, they should be prompted for
  their username and current password.  In this case, the page should be
  repeatedly shown for as long as there are errors, with the error message
  set, until the user successfully changes their password, after which
  they should be shown a success page.  The success page should be another
  separate page template.

  However, this password change process should also support redirecting
  the user to this page after an attempted login via the main WebLogin
  interface, if the password used is expired.  In this case, the page flow
  should be as follows:

  1. User enters their username and password into the WebLogin login
     screen as normal, but the authentication fails because the password
     is expired.

  2. WebLogin presents the password change page to the user with the
     username suppressed and a hidden form field set with the username.
     The RT and ST tokens from the initial WebLogin interaction should
     also be preserved in hidden fields.  The user should be prompted
     again for their old password as well as twice for the new password
     (in other words, only the username field should be suppressed).

  3. User enters the old and new passwords on the password change page.
     Tickets for kadmin/changepw are acquired using the old password and
     then password change is attempted via the krb5_change_password API
     until successful, repeatedly displaying the page as necessary with
     the error template variable filled in if ticket acquisition or
     password change fails.  There does not need to be any timeout on this
     process, but the user won't be able to continue on to the destination
     web site (in step 4 below) if they take more than the lifetime of the
     initial request token.

  4. After successful password change, the password change page then
     repeats the WebKDC login interaction using the saved username and the
     new password and the RT and ST tokens.  If successful, it proceeds as
     normal to the confirmation page or redirect to the WAS.  On failure,
     it proceeds as normal for a login failure through the main WebLogin
     page.

  In this case, the password change screen should also present an
  informational message telling the user that their password has expired
  and they must change it before continuing.

Password Expiration Warning Interface

  Rather than surprising users when their password has actually expired
  (and possibly affecting other applications first that don't support
  changing of expired passwords), it's desirable to present to the user a
  warning when their password is about to expire.  This warning will be
  added to the WebLogin confirmation screen, which will be displayed in
  this case even if it's normally suppressed.

  There does not appear to be a standard Kerberos API to determine whether
  a password is about to expire, so we will use a remctl interface for
  this purpose.  The remctl interface will be:

      kadmin check_expire <user>

  and will return the password expiration date for that user in UTC in the
  ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SSZ, where the trailing Z is the
  literal character Z, representing the time zone).  How far in advance to
  display a warning to the user will be configurable and default to one
  week.  Checking of expiration will be enabled by setting in the WebLogin
  configuration the server on which this remctl interface is running.

  If the expiration date is within the check interval, the confirmation
  page will be forced even if it's disabled, and a message will be added
  to the confirmation page telling the user that their password will be
  expiring, giving both how long (in days and hours if it's close) before
  the password will expire and the date and time when the password will
  expire (probably converted to the local time zone).  Only the interval
  and time should be template parameters; the rest should be handled
  inside the template.

  If the password is expiring soon, this message should also include a
  link to the password change page, filling in the username with whatever
  username the user used to authenticate.  This link should open the
  password change page in a separate window so that the user can continue
  to their destination without interfering with the password change.
  Ideally, we should find a way in this situation to tell the user that
  they need to still continue to their destination within five minutes or
  they'll have to reauthenticate through WebAuth.

  To save load on the expiration checking interface, we should probably
  only check for password expiration when the user authenticates with
  username and password, not when they are authenticated via REMOTE_USER
  or with a single sign-on cookie.

Implementation Notes

  In order to support continuing with the user's authentication after
  successfully changing their password without forcing extra trips through
  WebLogin pages, the page receiving the post for the password change will
  need to also know how to do the regular WebLogin interaction.  However,
  to support unprompted password change, the password change page should
  be available via a different URL.  While there are various ways to
  handle this, maximum flexibility in URL design argues for making that
  password change page a separate script.

  Therefore, one of the first steps in implementation should be to put the
  password change logic and page building into a Perl module.  This is a
  good opportunity to do the same thing for the WebLogin code, moving
  towards the Perl best practice of putting as much code as possible into
  modules and keeping scripts to wrappers around a Perl module.

  The Authen::Krb5 module does not provide the change_password API.  It
  would probably be easier to add that API to libwebauth and then to the
  WebAuth Perl module instead of maintaining a local fork of the
  Authen::Krb5 module.  Example code for how to call that API is available
  in the pam-krb5 package and in the krb5-sync package.

  The necessary API for checking expiration time will need to be added to
  the kadmin-remctl package.  A dependency on Date::Parse and Net::Remctl
  will be required in the WebLogin code to support password expiration
  warning.  This dependency should only be required if that feature is
  enabled (in other words, defer loading of the modules until confirming
  that feature is wanted).

  All relevant documentation should be updated with this change.  One
  advantage of moving more of the WebLogin code into modules is that those
  modules can then get POD documentation.  The existing WebAuth and WebKDC
  modules could also use better POD documentation.  The new WebLogin
  configuration options and page flow should be added to the relevant
  files in docs.

License

  Copyright 2010
    The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

  Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
  permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
  and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
  warranty.
